From julianr@dai.ed.ac.uk Wed Sep  1 11:40:26 1999
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 1999 11:58:25 +0100 (BST)
From: julianr@dai.ed.ac.uk
To: seafood-users@dai.ed.ac.uk
Subject: Minutes of seafood user meeting

Minutes of Seafood Users meeting, 22 April 1999


(1) System status:

       Clam                    -     Ian Green

        clam 2.8.0 issued
	clam 2.8.1 about to be issued, being held up by a CVS problem.
	clam 2.8.1 features the following:

		piecewise fertilisation added

		manual up to date

		all tactics present, except for Presburger arithmetic 
			(not envisaged that they will be added any time soon).
	 

	McAllester corpus module now exists

		patch files available to allow clam library mechanism to
		load definitions from theory when necessary,
		i.e. without a needs file. AB suggested there should be
		a switch to enable this mechanism in 2.8.1

	There was a consensus that clam.v2.8.1 should be maintained and
	continue to live.

	Some translations of DMAC corpus to CLAM format are weird.
			

       Clam/HOL                -     Richard Boulton

			Summary by Richard, thanks.

        Current version based on Clam 2.7.0 and HOL90.10.
           Clam 2.7.0 does not have the changes made for the competition.
        Automatic sending of definitions and induction schemes based
           on the contants and types appearing in the goal.
        HOL definitions (in particular ones involving conditional
           expressions) are transformed into Clam-friendly forms.
        Some support for mutual recursion at the meta-level.
        New release very soon.

        Future changes:
        - Applying a single Clam method at a time, including using Clam
          to choose the induction scheme and variable.
        - Automated advice as to when calling Clam is not sensible,
          e.g. when the goal contains existential quantifiers.
        - Distributable executables and possibly a Web server.
        - Adapting to the Prosper Plug-In Interface, lambdaClam (just to
          get HOL talking to it; no tactics), Clam 3.2 (for co-induction
          examples using Louise Dennis' work), and HOL98 (the new "lean
          and mean" version of HOL).
        - Maybe use HOL's theory database in an extended interaction
          between the two systems.
        - Less likely: a limited critics mechanism for Clam 2 (HOL version).

       lambdaClam              -     Julian Richardson

        lclam 1.4.4 issued, progress on persistent planner. Following features:
		improved library mechanism	
		improved methods (e.g. better use of sinks in induction)
		socket interface
		uptodate manual

	lclam 1.4.5 will have persistent planner and
		possible prototype XBarnacle interface
		utility for loading some CLAM library files.

	lclam 1.4.6 will have Jon Whittle's modifications for the
		unification synthesis example
			

		Jeremy intends to use lclam for middle-out induction.
		Need comparison of lclam with other systems - LEO or
		TPS? 

       LambdaClam/XBarnacle    -     Mike Jackson

		Interface is to a version of lclam.v1.4.3 with a
		prototype version of the persistent planner

		Nice display of proof tree, formulae, wave terms
		same system can act in both windowing and text-only mode

		Different display of different levels of method
		hierarchy not yet done

(2) Task force summary:

       Corpus task force

       Implementation task force

       Experimental systems task force


	Corpus and Experimental task forces merged into single
	"Empirical" task force headed by Andrew Ireland. Recent
	activities of ETF:

		"Best software practice" note issued by Gordon
		DMac corpus distribution
		Andrew has a student working on an HTML version of CLAM.
		
(3) User's feedback

	Andrew Cook: problems with boolean types in lambdaclam.

(4) AOB

(5) Date of next meeting

	2pm, Thursday 17th June 1999, F13 in AI South Bridge.

Julian


-- 
Julian Richardson     http://www.dai.ed.ac.uk/staff/personal_pages/julianr/
Mathematical Reasoning Group, Edinburgh University, Phone: +44 131 650 2721 

